Hello friends
In this video let us discuss about the binary search
algorithm
So Binary
search is actually like searching a page in a
book with ordered page numbers
Here the first page number will be one
Next will be two then three then four
And so So assume you have such a book in
your hand with 100 pages
And I am asking you to find Page number 90
So what will you do You will take the book
and opened the page near to centre
Now you have the left half and right half so
we know we have 100 pages
So in the first half it will be 1 to
The second half it will be 51 to 100
So you will ignore the first half and consider the
second half
Only since 90 could be present in this half only
And here the page numbers are from 51 to 100 again
You will divide it in half and it will be
51 to 75 76
to 100
And you will ignore the first half again and search
in the second half
And this way you can easily find the page
Number 90
So unlikely
linear search
We don't need to go through all pages of the
book
We will continuously divide the book into half till we
find that particular page so we can save a lot
of time
So that is binary search so binary search
can be performed on sorter or ordered set of elements.